# Hyprland & Critical Softwares 🖥️🔧
With the prerequisite base system established, we proceed to the core of this guide. This section delineates the process of installing Hyprland and configuring critical system software to ensure a robust and efficient workflow.

## Hyprland Installation 🚀
1. **Install Hyprland:** 

    ```
    xbps-install -Su hyprland
    ```

2. **Initiate Hyprland:**
    As we installed SDDM before, you can also start the session through it.

    ```
    Hyprland
    ```

3. **Upon initial launch:** A top bar will display with a warning and commands to launch Alacritty and exit Hyprland.
To remove the warning ⚠️:

    * Launch Alacritty using the shortcut **`(SUPER + Q)`** 
    * Navigate to `~/.config/hypr/hyprland.conf` and either comment out or remove the line `autogenerated = 1`.

    Essential default keybindings:
    * **`SUPER + C`:** Kill the active window
    * **`SUPER + M`:** Quit hyprland (but why would you want to?)

To access web resources, open Alacritty and execute `firefox` to launch the Brave browser.

## Critical System Components 🛠️
1. **XDG Desktop Portal:** The XDG Desktop Portal is crucial for handling desktop functionalities such as file dialogs and screensharing.

    ```
    xbps-install -Su xdg-desktop-portal-hyprland
    ```

2. **Install Polkit:** Polkit manages system-wide privileges. Install the KDE version for compatibility:

    ```
    xbps-install -Su polkit-kde-agent
    ```
    
    * To autostart Polkit, append the following to your `hyprland.conf`:

        ```
        exec-once=/usr/lib/polkit-kde-authentication-agent-1
        ```

    * Note: Ensure there's no whitespace between `=` and `/`.

3. **QT Wayland Support:** Install the necessary libraries for QT applications to function correctly under Wayland:

    ```
    xbps-install -Su qt5-wayland qt6-wayland
    ```

4. **Notification Daemon:** A notification daemon is essential for managing system notifications. Many apps may freeze without one running. [Dunst](https://github.com/dunst-project/dunst) is a lightweight, customizable option:

    ```
    xbps-install -Su dunst
    ```

    * To autostart dunst, append the following to your `hyprland.conf`:

        ```
        exec-once=/usr/bin/dunst
        ```

## Hyprland Session Reload 🔄
After installing the critical software components and making the necessary configurations, restart your Hyprland session to ensure all new settings and software are properly initialized and integrated.

**Next:** [Basic Configuration](basic_configuration.md) 👉
